>> Estelle Weyl: Okay, so we're going to
start off the day by looking at selectors.
I'm not gonna cover selectors yet.
But I just want to show you that with CSS,
you can target anything and
style it in any way you want.
So here I've said every third list item,
but we could also do font size 4m,
and I could also change the color
to red actually that is a green.
So we're going to be looking
at changing it to plus one.
So I just changed the item that was there.
We're gonna be looking at the stuff
that's on the left hand side,
which is the type first, and then we're
gonna spend the rest of the day looking at
the stuff on the right hand side.
So, basically,we are going
to be looking at first,
at selectors and then the property values.
Some of these, will be prefixed,
generally you do not wanna
use prefixed properties.
Mostly don't use prefixed properties,
but remove the moz-border radius and
remove the webkit linear
gradient from your code.
Old Android devices that don't, I mean
these are really old Android devices.
The reason a lot of CSS
properties stay prefixed,
used to be because of the performance.
And is still that is why a lot of the CSS
features don't come out that we really
wanted because there is no way for
the browser vendors to
make it perform it enough.
If you use moz-border-radius,
well moz-border-radius is a bad example,
if you use webkit-border-radius or
webkit radial-gradient, you're targeting
the only device that needs that is
an old Android device, all right?
And it's really slow to create
a gradient on an old Android device,
it's really slow to create border
radiuses on old Android device.
So just, if they need that prefixed,
that's probably on a slow device.
So just for the most part cut out,
though there are some experimental
features that basically they
haven't finished the spec yet.
You shouldn't use those because then
you're not hitting every single browser.
But there's sometimes
where they're just so
awesome that you wanna use them
anyways before they're ready.
So we'll cover some of those,
we'll cover some at rules,
we'll cover some tools,
what are tools for generating CSS?
I use a sublime for creating it.
And then I also use SASS
as a pre-processor, but
all you really need is a text editor.
You don't need any fancy tools.
There's some what you see is what you get.
There's Dreamweaver, Aloha editor,
there's these I've never heard of
these other than when I did a search so
I could put other examples up.
Some people make fun of
people who use Dreamweaver,
I haven't used, or even looked at
it in about four or five years.
But it actually was a really good tool,
and it created nice clean, and
it might still create nice
clean HTML within external CSS.
It's not the tools that are the problem,
it's the way people use
the tools that are the problem.
Other than Frontpage,
Frontpage was just a problem.
When an editor puts all of the stuff in
for you, when you don't want it to and
it's basically making all these decisions
and putting stuff in-line, that's bad.
As long as you're controlling the tool and
not letting the tool control you.
Similarly with preprocessors and
postprocessors,
They can be very powerful but
they can also be very dangerous.
So, oops, so postprocessors,
I'm not gonna actually
cover any postprocessors because,
I've never used any.
Because hopefully I will provide you
with enough information today and
tomorrow that you won't actually
need to postprocess your CSS,
you'll actually know how to write the CSS.
Anyway, I do use preprocessor because
I like it organize my CSS and
I will cover that later.
Will also cover debugging,
there is no separate section on debugging.
I'm going to be talking
about debugging and
you'll see me debug
throughout the whole process.
This are some of the different
ways of debugging,
I am using Chrome at this moment,
so my debugging will be in Chrome,
we're going to go over to
Firefox a little bit tomorrow.
There's tools in every browser and so,
we're not gonna do a separate section on
it, but will be throughout the class.
Some really cool tool is CSS,
well there's lots of really
cool tools,
one of the ones I like is Font Squirrel.
I use them, but remember that you
should be controlling your CSS and
not letting your CSS control you.
So when you use a tool
understand what it's doing.
And so my goal today is to provide you
with enough information that when a tool
creates some output, you can read that
output and know exactly what it's doing,
and remove the 140,000 lines that it
added that you didn't really need.
And you think I'm exaggerating,
but I've seen that.
There's a lot of other
development tools like CodePen,
I'm using a few CodePen throughout
the two days of workshop,
but I'm mostly using in header CSS.
But I think it's a great
tool to test stuff out when
you don't have Estelle to
prepare the page for you.